In this lecture, we look at how to test results using assertions.
So what is an assertion?
Assertions are used to validate in a test case and helps us understand if a test case has passed or
failed.
The assertion is considered to be met if the actual result of an application matches without the expected
result.
This is a key part of automation testing as we want to verify.
A value returned is what we expected it to be.
Think of it this way.
So this is an example of an assertion passing.
So this person is going to go through the store and is expecting to find free cars in his garage when
he goes through the door.
He finds it as free cars.
And because the cars the number of cars match the numbers he was expecting.
The assertion passes.
In this example, the assertion fails.
So the same person is again going to go through the average store to expect to find free cars.
But when he does, he only finds two.
So the expected result was different to the actual result.
And because of that reason, the assertion failed.
So how an assertion might look.
So look at the blunt code and notice that we are going to the automation test in home page.
We then retrieve the page title using the title method.
We compare the page title with the value that we expected it to be.
If the value matches, then the test will pass.
If they are different, then the test will fail.
So let's try to sell.
So the first thing I'm going to do is walk you through the test.
I'm going to open up Chrome browser and I'm going to go to the automation test in home page.
Now I'm going to right click and go into view page source.
And this will showed how much HTML the page.
Now, if we look, we're going to be looking for title tags.
And this page has a 22 of home page.
So to test that I'm going to run is going to look at this title of this page and I'm going to compare
it to the expected value that I thought it was going to be.
So for now, I'm just going to minimize this and I'm going to open up the clips.
So I'm going to copy and paste the class in the last lecture, and I'm going to give it a name of l09
for Lecture nine and I'm going to call it a certain underscore pt1 and then click, okay.
And I'm going to double click and open that class and I'm going to remove code from the last lecture
that we don't need.
So the first thing I'm going to do is amend the address.
So I want to go to the home page.
So I'm just going to remove this last part.
Like so.
So the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create a string variable and I'm going to do this
by writing stream with a capital S, T and G, and I'm going to call the stream page title.
And it's going to equal drive up
starts get.
Title Bikes own.
So all this is going to do is going to go to the automation test in home page and then the driver object
is going to get the title of that page and it's going to store that value in this page title variable.
The next thing I need to do is use an surgeon and I can do this by writing cert.
So with a capital I and then dot.
But you see, we're not do that thought.
I don't get any method suggestions.
And the reason for that is we need to import we need to import J unit into our project.
And to do that, we need to right click our project, go to properties, go to Java, Build Path, click
on libraries and then highlight the class path.
Once you've done that, then click the Add library button.
You wouldn't be given an option of G-Unit.
So highlight J units and click next.
And then you've got to import to the library version.
So I'm going to use J Unit for because this is one I have most experience with and is commonly used.
And then I'm going to click Finish.
So unit four should then appear underneath your class path, then click apply and close and enjoy.
Unit four should be listed under your project.
So now if I go back to assert and press dot you select methods, methods, suggestions.
And the method that I want to use is one called.
Assert equals.
And then I'm going to do it open and close and in bracket.
And it takes two values.
The first one is the expected value, and the second one is the actual value.
So the actual value is going to be the one that the driver object gets and it's going to be store owner
in page title.
So I'm going to copy page title and I'm going to remove the second the second quotes and replace it
of page title like so.
Now the expected value is the value that I expect the page title to be, so I believe it's going to
be home page.
So what this test does, it goes to the home page automation test in the driver objects, gets the title
of the page and stores into the page title variable.
We then run in an assertion where we're expecting that page title to equal this value.
So let's give it a go.
So I'm going to site the class and I'm going to try running it.
So that test is now run.
And if I go back to Eclipse.
You see, there's no out here.
That's because the page title, Equal Home Page.
But if one was to change home page to home page one inside this class and try running it again.
Let's see what happens.
So if I go back to Eclipse.
You see it as an error.
And if you look at this error, it says expected home page one but was home page.
So what they're saying is there's a mismatch between expected value and the actual value.
And for that reason, the test failed.
So before I bring this lecture to a close, let me just go over what Jason is.
J unit is a unit testing framework for Java programming language.
It is useful for Java developers to write and run repeatable tests.
It plays a crucial role in test driven development, and it is an open source framework which is used
for writing and running tests.
J unit provides assertions for test and expected results, and it also provides annotations to identify
test methods.
J.
Unit tests allow you to write code faster, which increases quality.
So we'll be using J Unit for right in and run in some of our tests going forward.
I hope you found this lecture useful.
And thank you for watching.